# TornadoVM Changelog
This file summarizes the new features and major changes for each *TornadoVM* version. 

## TornadoVM 0.3
22/07/2019

  * New Matrix 2D and Matrix 3D classes with type specializations. 
  * New API-call `TaskSchedule#batch` for batch processing. It allows programmers to run with more data than the maximum capacity of the accelerator by creating batches of executions. 
  * FPGA full automatic compilation pipeline. 
  * FPGA options simplified:
      * `-Dtornado.precompiled.binary=<binary>` for loading the bitstream.
      * `-Dtornado.opencl.userelative=True` for using relative addresses.
      * `-Dtornado.opencl.codecache.loadbin=True` *removed*. 
  * Reductions support enhanced and fully automated on GPUs and CPUs.  
  * Initial support for reductions on FPGAs. 
  * Initial API for profiling tasks integrated.

## TornadoVM 0.2 
25/02/2019
  * Rename to TornadoVM
  * Device selection for better performance (CPU, multi-core, GPU, FPGA) via an API for Dynamic Reconfiguration
      * Added methods `executeWithProfiler` and `executeWithProfilerSequential` with an input policy. 
      * Policies: `Policy.PERFORMANCE`, `Policy.END_2_END`, and `Policy.LATENCY` implemented. 
  * Basic heuristic for predicting the highest performing target device with Dynamic Reconfiguration
  * Initial FPGA integration for Altera FPGAs:
    * Full JIT compilation mode
    * Ahead of time compilation mode
    * Emulation/debug mode 
  * FPGA JIT compiler specializations
  * Added support for Java reductions:
    * Compiler specializations for CPU and GPU reductions
  * Performance and stability fixes

## Tornado 0.1.0 
07/09/2018

  * Initial Implementation of the Tornado compiler
  * Initial GPU/CPU code generation for OpenCL
  * Initial support in the runtime to execute OpenCL programs generated by the Tornado JIT compiler
  * Initial Tornado-API release (@Parallel annotation and TaskSchedules)
  * Multi-GPU enabled through multiple tasks-schedules

